# Data Exploration of Store Customers and Candy Bars Purchases


## Dataset

> The dataset consists of information about the purchases of chocolate candy bars of 500 individuals from a given area when entering a physical ‘FMCG’ store in the period of 2 years. All data has been collected through the loyalty cards they use at checkout. The volume of the dataset has been restricted and anonymised to protect the privacy of the customers. The dataset was stored localy at my computer (the initial source was i suppose Kaggle, but unfortunately i coudn't find the link). There are 24 features and 58693 entries in the dataset. The main features are: sex, age, income, marital status, education, occupation of customers as well as information about brands od chocolate bars such as price, sold quantity and promotions. Before i started to explore the dataset I've replaced the integer values in categorical columns with correspondent string representations.


## Summary of Findings

> By univariate exploration I have examined the main information about the customer, such as sex, age, income, occupation, education, marital status as well as the customers' purchase behavior regarding. By talking about  unexpected findings, outliers or other inconsistent correlation in the data I was suprised to find out that men visit the store more often than women. Chocholate bars don't belong to the necessity goods and the customers buy them only in 25% of cases. Apart from that the data and looks pretty clean and logic. For instance it's more likely that customers buy 3 to 1 bar pro store visit.
> by bivariate exploration i examined and compared the price of each brand, price development over the time, correlation between age and income of customers as well as how much money do the customers spent on chocolate bars depending on their income. By the prices of brand 1, 4 and 5 were determined some outliers. This outliers can be prices of the chocolate bars during correspondet promotions. Also there are some customers which spend much more moe´ney for bars compared to other customers. The majority of customers spent not more that 750\\$ during observation time, but seven of them 1250\\$ and even more. But in generall i wouldn't say that the higher income means more bought bars. The correlation is almost the same between poeple with lower and hiher income. The correlation between age and income seems to be much stronger. Older customers earn more money but there are also outliers in each age group.
> by multivariate exploration i've taken a look at the correlation between sex, marital status, age, education, income, occupation, settlement size and found out that there are strong positive correlations between age and education, occupation and income, occupation and settlement size, income and settlement size. Not suprising was that the older men with univercity education in manager postion, which come from a big city and have e.g. manager position have hihger income. Unexpected was for me that the promotions had actually weak influence on quantity of sold chocolate bars.
> in my explanatory analysis i am going to present the main summary information about the customers, such as age, income, place of residence, as well as correlations between income and age, income and spend amount of money for chocholate bars, number of sold bars, bar price development from each brand 


## Key Insights for Presentation

> For the presentation, I mainly focused on describing information about the customers as well as their behavior by purchasing the chocholate bars. During my explonatory analysis i have tried to produce the diagramms, which i can use during the axplanatory analisys. My presentation slides I have started with overview of customer information with pie chart and histogram, continued with poinplot describing the correlation between age and income of men and women. After that it comes to analysis of income and spent amount of money for chocholate bars. I have finished the presentation with comparison of the most popular brands, number of sold bar pro store visit and price development over the observation time.